README.md, before:

# Laravel Headless Starter

A modern, headless Laravel 12 starter template for building robust APIs. Perfect for decoupled applications, mobile backends, and microservices.

## Features

- 🚀 Laravel 12 with PHP 8.2+
- 🧪 Pest 4 for testing
- 🎨 Laravel Pint for code formatting
- 🔧 Laravel Boost for enhanced development
- 📦 SQLite database (easily switchable)
- ⚡ Vite for asset bundling
- 🐳 Laravel Sail for Docker development

## Quick Start

```bash
# Clone the repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/laravel-headless-starter.git
cd laravel-headless-starter

# Install dependencies and setup
composer setup

# Start development server
composer run dev
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Code Formatting

```bash
vendor/bin/pint
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

- `main` branch - Stable releases
- `develop` branch - Active development

## License

Open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).

Commit message:

📝 Update Quick Start for template usage

README.md, after:

# Laravel Headless Starter

A modern, headless Laravel 12 starter template for building robust APIs. Perfect for decoupled applications, mobile backends, and microservices.

## Features

- 🚀 Laravel 12 with PHP 8.2+
- 🧪 Pest 4 for testing
- 🎨 Laravel Pint for code formatting
- 🔧 Laravel Boost for enhanced development
- 📦 SQLite database (easily switchable)
- ⚡ Vite for asset bundling
- 🐳 Laravel Sail for Docker development

## Quick Start

```bash
# Use this template on GitHub (click "Use this template" button)
# Or clone your new repository
git clone https://github.com/YOUR_USERNAME/your-project-name.git
cd your-project-name

# Install dependencies and setup
composer setup

# Start development server
composer run dev
```

## Testing

```bash
composer test
```

## Code Formatting

```bash
vendor/bin/pint
```

## Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) for details.

- `main` branch - Stable releases
- `develop` branch - Active development

## License

Open-sourced software licensed under the [MIT license](https://opensource.org/licenses/MIT).
